The Appellant in Criminal Appeal No.430 of 2014 was convicted for an offence under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the 'IPC') and sentenced to life imprisonment. 	Facts
The Appeal preferred by him was dismissed by the High Court. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The Appellants in Criminal Appeal Nos.458-459 of 2014 who were tried along with the Appellant in Crl. 	Facts
Appeal 430 of 2014 were acquitted by the Trial Court. 	Ruling by Lower Court
Their acquittal was challenged by the State and the wife of the deceased before the High Court. 	Facts
The High Court reversed the acquittal and convicted them under Section 302 and sentenced them to life imprisonment. 	Ruling by Lower Court
Aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, the Appellants have filed the above Appeals. 	Facts
An FIR was registered at 11:45 am on 11.01.2010 on the basis of statement given by Sadiq Hussain Majloom Jafri (PW-3). 	Facts
As per the FIR, Sarfraj Akbar Syyed who was a resident of Jamkhed, District Ahmednagar was eking out his livelihood by selling goggles and spectacles. 	Facts
Sadiq Hussain Majloom Jafri (PW-3) along with his cousin Jafar Ali (PW-4) reached Ahmednagar at 10:00 am on 09.01.2010. 	Facts
They spent the whole day selling goggles at Ahmednagar and spent the night in a hotel. 	Facts
They continued their activity of selling goggles during the day time on 10.01.2010 also. 	Facts
On the night of 10.01.2010, they were joined by their maternal uncle Sarfraj and all of them stayed at a lodge. 	Facts
At 09:00 am PW-3, PW-4 and Sarfraj reached Chaudhari Dhaba at Nagar Manmad road, Tal. 	Facts
Nagar, Ahmednagar. 	Facts
They made an attempt to sell the goggles to the truck drivers at the dhaba, in vain. 	Facts
They sat on a cot in front of the dhaba and were having tea. 	Facts
The Appellants reached the dhaba and asked Sarfraj to step aside as they wanted to speak to him. 	Facts
Sarfraj went with the Appellants to the rear side of the dhaba. 	Facts
After some time PW-3 and PW-4 heard abuses and shouts from the back side of dhaba and they rushed to see what was happening. 	Facts
They saw Sigva Ali (A-4) and Javed Ali (A-3) catching hold of the hands of Sarfraj. 	Facts
Sikandar Ali (A-1) attacked Sarfraj with a knife on the left side of his neck. 	Facts
They also saw Shahajan Ali (A-2) abusing Sarfraj and assaulting him by giving him fist blows. 	Facts
PW-3 and PW-4 started shouting for help and caught hold of A-1 and A-2 not permitting them to escape. 	Facts
A-3 and A-4 ran away from the spot. 	Facts
PW-7 who was working at the dhaba also witnessed the incident. 	Facts
On receipt of information, the police reached the place of occurrence within half an hour. 	Facts
A-1 and A-2 were taken into custody by the police. 	Facts
PW-3 and PW-4 took Sarfraj to the Civil Hospital, Ahmednagar in an auto rickshaw. 	Facts
At 11:30 am, the doctor examined Sarfraj and declared him dead. 	Facts
Thereafter, PW-3 and PW-4 went to the MIDC Police Station and reported the incident. 	Facts
The Post-mortem was conducted by Dr. Sandhya Deorao Chavan (PW 8) at the Civil Hospital, Ahmednagar at 2.30 pm. 	Facts
The external injury found on the dead body was described as follows in the post-mortem certificate issued by PW 8 :- 	Facts
"1/- Deep incised wound on left side of neck at corotidregion, horizontal, slightly curved laterally 3" length, 1" in breadth and 2.1/2" in depth. 	Facts
Deeper on lateral aspect than medical aspect. 	Facts
Edges are well defined clean and everted and deeply stained. 	Facts
Sprouting of blood seen on left side of chest, shoulder and back. 	Facts
Carotid vessel torn and retracted on left side." 	Facts
The cause of death was haemorrhage shock due to rupture of right carotid vessel. 	Facts
Charge-sheet was filed against all the four accused and thereafter charges were framed for an offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC. 	Facts
The Trial Court convicted the Appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 430 of 2014 for an offence punishable under Section 302 and sentenced him to life imprisonment. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The other accused who are Appellants in Criminal Appeal Nos. 458-459 of 2014 were acquitted by the Trial Court. 	Ruling by Lower Court
As stated earlier, the conviction and sentence of the Appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 430 of 2014 was confirmed by the High Court. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The acquittal of the Appellants in Criminal Appeal Nos. 	Ruling by Lower Court
458-459 of 2014 was reversed by the High Court and they were convicted under Section 302 IPC and sentenced to life imprisonment. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The deceased Sarfraj was having a shop at Jamkhed where he was selling goggles. 	Facts
He was the maternal uncle of PW-3 who is also in the same business. 	Facts
PW-3 was being helped by the deceased for selling goggles in the Ahmednagar area. 	Facts
The case of the prosecution is that there was rivalry between the accused and the deceased as they were in the same business. 	Facts
PW-3, PW-4 and PW-7 deposed that at 10:00 am the deceased, PW-3 and PW-4 reached Chaudhari dhaba at Nagar Manmad road and were having tea. 	Facts
All the accused reached the dhaba and took the deceased behind the dhaba saying that they wanted to speak to him. 	Facts
There is evidence on record to show that the deceased was attacked by Sikandar Ali (A-1) with a knife and the other accused assisted him in the attack. 	Facts
Sikardar Ali (A-1) and Shahjahan Ali (A-2) were caught and handed over to the police at the spot. 	Facts
Though PW-3 and PW-4 were related to the deceased, their evidence is credible and trustworthy. 	Ratio of the decision
The oral testimony of PW-7 who was working at the dhaba is consistent with the version of PW-3 and PW-4. 	Ratio of the decision
The medical evidence of PW-8 corroborates the oral testimonies. 	Ratio of the decision
We are in agreement with the findings recorded by the Trial Court that the death of Sarfraj is homicidal in nature. 	Ratio of the decision
We also do not find fault with the finding recorded by the Trial Court that the death of Sarfraj was caused due to the injury caused by Sikandar Ali (A-1). 	Ratio of the decision
We find no fault with the judgment of the High Court in confirming the findings of the Trial Court that Sikandar Ali is guilty of causing the death of Sarfraj. 	Ratio of the decision
The Trial Court acquitted accused 2 to 4 on the ground that the only role that was attributed to them by PW-3 and PW-4 was that they caught hold of the hands of the deceased during the attack. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The Trial Court further held that though the presence of the Appellants in Crl. 	Ruling by Lower Court
Appeal Nos.458-459 of 2014 was proved there was no evidence to prove the common intention of these accused along with A-1. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The Trial Court also held that there was no evidence to show that the attack was pre-meditated. 	Ruling by Lower Court
In the appeals against acquittal, the High Court held that there was a common intention on the part of A-1 to A-4 to eliminate Sarfraj. 	Ruling by Lower Court
The High Court further held that A-2 to A-4 assisted A-1 to cause injury to the deceased, and, thus, were liable to be punished for the homicide. 	Ruling by Lower Court
On the basis of the said findings, the High Court convicted A-2 to A-4 under Section 302 IPC and sentenced them to life imprisonment.. 	Ruling by Lower Court
We have no doubt about the complicity of all the accused in the homicide of Sarfraj. 	Ratio of the decision
A-1 attacked the deceased with the knife and caused injury on his neck which resulted in his death. 	Ratio of the decision
The other accused assisted him in committing the crime by holding the hands of the deceased. 	Ratio of the decision
However, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the accused are liable to be punished for an offence under Section 302 IPC. 	Ratio of the decision
After considering the submissions made by the counsel for the Appellants and scrutinising the material on record, we are of the opinion that the accused are not liable to be convicted under Section 302 IPC. 	Ratio of the decision
We are convinced that there was neither prior concert nor common intention to commit a murder. 	Ratio of the decision
During the course of their business activity the accused reached the dhaba where the deceased was present. 	Ratio of the decision
An altercation took place during the discussion they were having behind the dhaba. 	Ratio of the decision
That led to a sudden fight during which A-1 attacked the deceased with a knife. 	Ratio of the decision
Exception 4 to Section 300 is applicable to the facts of this case. 	Ratio of the decision
As we are convinced that the accused are responsible for the death of Sarfraj, we are of the opinion that they are liable for conviction under Section 304 part II of the IPC. 	Ratio of the decision
We are informed that A-1 has undergone a sentence of seven years and that A-2 to A-4 have undergone four years of imprisonment. 	Ratio of the decision
We modify the judgment of the High Court converting the conviction of the accused from Section 302 to Section 304 part II of the IPC sentencing them to the period already undergone. 	Ruling by Present Court
They shall be released forthwith. 	Ruling by Present Court
The Appeals are disposed of accordingly. 	Ruling by Present Court
Appeals disposed of 	Ruling by Present Court
